# GEOG 464 - Term Project Proposal - Cameron Brubacher

## An interactive map of Canadian literature

For my term project, I am looking to combine my interests in literature and geography to create an interactive map of Canadian literary works. I also hope that the research completed for this project can preface further studies in human geography, literature, and/or digital humanities. I expect that this project will fall under the third, 'data curator' path.

### Product
Specifically, I am looking to create a country-wide interactive map (most likely using Folium/Leaflet) to geographically display the location (i.e. setting or publishing location) of Canada's major literary works. Obviously, the extent of the data included will need to be greatly limited. I intend to include only *major* literary works writen by Canadians (i.e. people born in Canada, citizens, and residents), within a certain time period (most likely 1900 and later), of certain genres (fiction 'books' - novels, short stories, and poetry), and of certain languages (English, French, and perhaps indigenous languages). The determination of what denotes a *major* literary work is more complicated. Relying on academic sources, I intend to determine a relatively limited list of authors who have published works that have in some way significantly contributed to Canadian history and identity, and/or are widely considered as a preeminent figure in the country's literary scene (this will be further discussed later).

### Sources
The creation of this map will involve the concatenation and wrangling of data from multiple sources, mainly library databases which have catalogues of literary works (such as WorldCat, EBSCOhost, Canadiana, and Goodreads). I will mainly be targeting bibliographic works which collect citation information on literary works. One promosing source is the Canadian Literary Centre's *Annotated Bibliography of Major Canadian Authors* [series](https://lib-ezproxy.concordia.ca/login?url=https://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=cjh&bquery=&cli0=SE5&clv0=Annotated+bibliography+of+Canada%27s+major+authors&type=1&searchMode=Standard&site=ehost-live&scope=site), published by UofT, which includes bibliographic information on the works of a couple dozen presumed 'major' Canadian authors. The text from these database entries would first need to be wrangled into tabular format and cleaned up. I could then append data from other library catalogues with more bibliographic information and metadata. Next, I would add geographic information to the dataset by geocoding publishing house locations (and/or author or setting locations, if available), before converting to geojson and creating the interactive map with pop-ups that would show metadata on literary works. I would like this map to be searchable (if possible), as well as have the ability to apply filters (e.g. only works form a certain author, time period, language, region, etc.). Further analytic maps could be created showing, say, 'hotspots' of literary activity.

### Inspiration
I was inspired to pursue this term project not only from my love for Canadian literature and poetry, but also from a website I came across recently, [PLEPUC](http://plepuc.org/en) (*Présences du littéraire dans l'espace public Canadien*), which includes a similar map of both literary works and public art across the country. However, this project appears to be retired (website last updated in 2009), and its data is limited temporally, geographically, and linguistically (the large majority of entries in the relatively small dataset are concentrated in Québec, do not include recent works, and are in French). Furthermore, the website uses arguably outdated web mapping technologies which are not even able to load on my browser. I would, to a certain extent, be looking to improve upon and expand the ideas behind this project, while also updating the technologies used.